# Introduction-to-Monte-Carlo Method
Monte Carlo methods or Monte Carlo experiments, are a class of computational algorithms that rely on repeated random sampling in order to get numerical results. Their main idea is to use random samples of parametersor inputs to explore the behaviour of a complex system. They are used in physical and mathematical problems when it is very difficult to use otherapproaches. They are mainly used in :optimization, numerical integration and generating draws from a probability distribution. In physical problems, Monte Carlo methods are used for simulating systems with many coupled degrees of freedom,such as fluids,disordered materials, strongly coupled solids and cellular structures.
In a Monte Carlo simulation we try to follow the ’time dependence’ of a model for which change, or growth, proceeds in a stochastic manner that depends on a sequence of random numbers which is generated during the simulation. With a different sequence of random numbers the simulation will not give identical results but the values that are produced will agree with those that are produced from the first sequence with some ’statistical error’. In order to get sample values for the problem variables, we select specific numbers from appropriate ranges for the variables using probability distributions for such variables. By analysing the results from the sample values we can then get the solution, with estimates of uncertainties in it. An example of a Monte Carlo simulation, is the percolation problem. In
percolation an empty lattice is called with particles by placing a particle randomly on the lattice by each step. During this procedure the neighbouring particles form clusters. Another example is the diffusion limited aggregation (DLA). In DLA a ’seed’ mass is placed in the center of a lattice and then another particle is released that takes one random step at each time interval, until it meets the ’seed’ mass and sticks to it. The object that occurs has ’fractal’ properties. DLA phenomenon was first discovered by Monte Carlo simulation.
